[Music]
so is time traveling only possible in
movies what if I told you that you go
into the future every time you fly in a
plane and I don't mean the time zones
changing also time slows down for your
brain during long travels I have not
much time to explain this but I'll try
before you go time traveling on an
airplane here's one were fat we all live
in the past not the present it's about
how our brain works it receives
information through the eyes ears and
other parts of the body analyzes it and
then we realize what's happening around
us the speed of this whole process is
about 80 milliseconds which is eight
hundredths of a second so the human
brain perceives the present only after a
jiffy
which means we all live a little bit in
the past and now it's time to set off
for the future sit back and fasten your
seat belts every time you move in space
as in walking running driving a car or
flying time for you slows down a bit
relative to people and object staying
still scientists use the ultra precise
atomic clock to measure the difference
in the speed of time despite its name
this clock is absolutely safe it just
records the vibrations of atoms instead
of measuring out seconds in short this
is the most accurate clock in the world
so much so in fact that it only gets a
second late once in 3.7 billion years I
won't be around then so just trust me on
this so scientists took two atomic
clocks either of them had an aluminum
atom within that vibrated trillions of
times per second scientists applied a
weak electric field to one of the clocks
making the atom move at the end of the
experiment
the clock that moved was a fraction of a
second behind it works the same for us
on board an airplane time slows down for
us too but so imperceptibly that it
doesn't matter but gravity also makes
the time go slower the closer you are to
the gravitational source that is the
earth the slower the time goes
say there are two identical twins when
lives on the ground floor of the Empire
State Building and the other on the top
of it eighty years later the second twin
will be 90 billions of a second older
than the twin who lives on the ground
floor it's all about the changes in the
molecular structure of their bodies so
when you fly in an airplane at a high
altitude where gravity is weaker you get
older by a few nanoseconds faster and
this happens during each flight but what
if the plane speed was much higher what
if it could accelerate to almost the
speed of light let me remind you that
it's 670 million miles per hour so if
you fly almost at this speed the time
will slow down by a lot two hours in the
cabin will transform into two decades on
earth and if you somehow go faster than
the speed of light then the cause and
effect relationship may be violated
according to the law of nature a cause
comes first and then the effect in
simple terms this means that you asked
the flight attendant for water first and
then you got it it can't be that you get
the water and then ask for it unless
you've beaten the speed of light then it
can photons the light particles cover
the distance from the Sun to earth in
eight minutes
having overcome the speed of light on
our plane we are catching up with the
photons that were launched from the Sun
eight minutes ago our speed increases
and we catch up with the photons that
the Sun launched yesterday then a week
ago a month a year we're flying into the
past we arrive at earth 150 million
years ago dinosaurs ammonites and sea
monsters are not even the most
interesting stuff you can find here a
day on ancient earth lasts twenty three
hours instead of 24 the astronomical day
of Earth increases by two milliseconds
every century so in 200 million years
time there will already be 25 hours in a
day
this happens because our planets
rotation slows down thanks to the sea
and ocean tides okay let's go back to
the future not in our time though but in
about 1500
BCE at the time when people learned to
determine the time by the sundial the
shadow on the sundial moves from left to
right this is the reason why the hands
of clocks go in this direction all right
all aboard again to England of the 19th
century it was here John Henry
Belleville learned to earn with the help
of time the essence of the business was
that every day
mr. Belleville set his watch to
Greenwich Mean Time at the observatory
in person and then drove around to its
clients homes and set them the exact
rent each time for a fee the business
flourished for long after he was gone
and his daughter continued his efforts
until her own old age that's it we're
back in our time in 2020 and the last
fact before you leave the cabin if we
pack the history of our planet into 24
hours humankind would appear at 11:59
p.m. in the very last minute of the day
after such an eventful time journey it's
important to note that time slowed down
not only on the plane but inside our
brains to perceive time gets slower for
us when we move it's all about emotions
when everyday is filled with new
experiences it seems to us that time
stretches slows down or sometimes stops
at all but seconds go on ticking away as
usual our brain perceives the past that
was full of events very differently
besides the real objective time each
person has their own subjective sense of
time in short we have an internal timer
in our heads this is proved by one
simple experiment called the oddball
paradigm you're sitting in front of a
computer looking at pictures of shoes
changing in quick succession
suddenly a picture of a flower appears
but only once and although it's screen
time is the same as that of all the rest
it will seem to you that the flower
stayed on the screen for much longer
than the shoes this happens because
monotony speeds up time many pictures
with shoes become monotonous
well the flower dilutes this drag and
seems longer
same goes for a calm and repetitive
lifestyle if all you do every single day
is a routine then even if your life is
long you'll perceive it as extremely
short here's another example when you
climb a high mountain somewhere in
another country time stretches for you
and when you're filling out reports in
the office a whole week and fly by in
the blink of an eye did you notice that
time in childhood dragged on much more
slowly the week before Christmas seemed
like an eternity well as an adult
you may be wondering where the past year
has gone so quickly this happens because
we experience new emotions and get new
experiences every hour of every new day
in childhood but when we grow up our
life gains a certain order and we don't
have time to do something new days and
weeks become too much alike time flies
and we don't remember a lot but there is
a solution traveling it has a special
magic during a journey we immerse
ourselves in the unknown we visit new
places move from one city to another pay
more attention to details learn new and
exciting things we become children again
for a short while and time slows down
for us the brain begins to slow down the
perception of time to help us understand
and learn what is happening around us
and then it seems to us that the days
are getting longer life is expanding the
take away be more like a banana yep to
stay green keep growing otherwise when
you ripen you'll just rot Hey but either
way you'll still have a peel hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life